DataStore documentation revamp Part 2/2 (#1903)
aws-amplify/docs: docs/lib/datastore/data-access.md

---
<inline-fragment platform="js" src="~/lib/datastore/fragments/js/data-access/importing-datastore-snippet.md"></inline-fragment>

## Create and update

> To write data to the DataStore you can pass an instance of a model to `Amplify.DataStore.save()`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To write data to the DataStore, pass an instance of a model to `Amplify.DataStore.save()`:
```

<inline-fragment platform="js" src="~/lib/datastore/fragments/js/data-access/save-snippet.md"></inline-fragment>
<inline-fragment platform="ios" src="~/lib/datastore/fragments/ios/data-access/save-snippet.md"></inline-fragment>
<inline-fragment platform="android" src="~/lib/datastore/fragments/android/data-access/save-snippet.md"></inline-fragment>

> The `save` method takes care of creating a new record or updating an existing one in case the model `id` already exists in the database.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`save()` will create a new object, if the model's ID is not already known to the DataStore. Otherwise, if there is an existing record with the same ID, `save()` will update it.
```

<inline-fragment platform="js" src="~/lib/datastore/fragments/js/data-access/update-snippet.md"></inline-fragment>
<inline-fragment platform="ios" src="~/lib/datastore/fragments/ios/data-access/update-snippet.md"></inline-fragment>
<inline-fragment platform="android" src="~/lib/datastore/fragments/android/data-access/update-snippet.md"></inline-fragment>

## Delete

To delete an item simply pass in an instance.

<inline-fragment platform="js" src="~/lib/datastore/fragments/js/data-access/delete-snippet.md"></inline-fragment>
<inline-fragment platform="ios" src="~/lib/datastore/fragments/ios/data-access/delete-snippet.md"></inline-fragment>
<inline-fragment platform="android" src="~/lib/datastore/fragments/android/data-access/delete-snippet.md"></inline-fragment>

## Query Data

> Querying data is always against the local database. When cloud synchronization is enabled, the local database is updated in the background by the DataStore Sync Engine.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Queries are performed against the _local database_. When cloud synchronization is enabled, the local database is updated in the background by the DataStore Sync Engine.
```

> You can query using models as well as conditions using predicate filters to narrow down results.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can narrow the results of your query by specifying a model type of interest. For more advanced filtering, such as matching arbitrary field values on an object, you can supply a query predicate.
```

<inline-fragment platform="js" src="~/lib/datastore/fragments/js/data-access/query-basic-snippet.md"></inline-fragment>
<inline-fragment platform="ios" src="~/lib/datastore/fragments/ios/data-access/query-basic-snippet.md"></inline-fragment>
<inline-fragment platform="android" src="~/lib/datastore/fragments/android/data-access/query-basic-snippet.md"></inline-fragment>

### Predicates

> You can apply predicate filters against the DataStore using the fields defined on your schema along with the following conditions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Predicates are filters that can be used to match items in the DataStore. When applied to a query(), they constrain the returned results. When applied to a save(), they act as a pre-requisite for updating the data. You can match against fields in your schema by using the following predicates:
```
